Padmasree Warrior (born Yellepeddi Padmasree) is an Indian-American woman, businesswoman and technology executive. She is known for her leadership roles in technology firms like Cisco where she served as the CTO for seven years, and at Motorola where she was the CTO for five years. She also served as the CEO of Nio USA, an electric car maker. Currently, she is the founder and CEO of Fable, a curated reading platform focused on mental wellness. She also serves on the board of directors of Microsoft and Spotify. In 2014, she was listed as one of the 100 most powerful woman in the world by Forbes. In 2018 she was also featured among "America's Top 50 Women In Tech" by Forbes.
Yellepeddi Padmasree was born into a Telugu family in Vijayawada of Andhra Pradesh, India. She went to school at the Children's Montessori School and Maris Stella College in Vijayawada. Warrior received a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from IIT Delhi in 1982. She holds a master's degree in chemical engineering from Cornell University. Warrior is married to Mohandas Warrior and has a son.
Warrior joined Motorola in 1984 Over the course of her 23 years at the company she served as Corporate Vice-President and general manager of Motorola's Energy Systems Group, and Corporate Vice-President and Chief Technology Officer in its Semiconductor Products Sector. Immediately prior to becoming Motorola's CTO, she served as general manager of Thoughtbeam, a product of Motorola, in Tempe, Arizona. When named Motorola's CTO in January 2003, Warrior became a senior vice-president and in 2005 she was promoted to executive vice-president.
During Warrior's tenure as CTO, Motorola was awarded the 2004 National Medal of Technology by the President of the United States, the first time the company had received this honour. During this period she was a proponent of "Seamless Mobility" – the concept of having seamless communication across all facets of a person's life. The dream was not fully realised and the concept was eventually dropped from Motorola marketing presentations.
Warrior has been a member of Microsoft's board of directors since December 2015. She is also a board member at Spotify. She was a member of the Gap Inc. board from 2013 to 2016 and the Box board from 2014 to 2016.
Warrior also serves on the boards of Thorn, the Joffrey Ballet, Chicago's Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago Mayor's Technology Council, and advisory council of Indian Institute of Technology. She previously served on the Cornell University board, the Texas Governor's Council for Digital Economy, the Technology Advisory Council for the FCC, and the Advisory Committee for Computing and Information Science and Engineering of the National Science Foundation (NSF). She is serving as a mentor in the State Department's International Women Leaders Mentoring Partnership. Warrior served on the board of directors for Corning Incorporated from 2005 through 2008.