Robin Maxkii (born November 8, 1990) is a Native American woman, technology activist, filmmaker, and writer. Maxkii is known primarily for her work on broadening the participation of Native Americans in education and technology. She co-starred in the Microsoft-funded PBS series "Code Trip" showcasing diversity within the technology industry. In 2016 Máxkii organized and directed the first national American Indian collegiate hackathon, focused on addressing the digital divide and access to technology in rural and under served communities. Two years later, Google launched a documentary about her journey in technology.
Robin Máxkii is of Stockbridge-Munsee, Navajo, Mohican and Spanish descent. Maxkii taught herself to code using public library computers from the age of eleven and began running various websites utilizing free Web hosting services. In 2014 Maxkii graduated from Diné College, a tribal college, and later Salish Kootenai College located on the Flathead Indian Reservation.
In 2014, her blogging network "Blood Quantum Reform" was shortlisted to join the United Nations Global Partnership for Youth. Maxkii used her blog to raise awareness on issues within Indian country primarily related to blood quantum, education access, and tribal sovereignty.
Around 2014, while still a tribal college student, she co-produced and narrated a segment of the Navajo Oral History project which is now archived in the Smithsonian.
In 2015, she was invited to introduce Dr. Jill Biden at a national Conference. Dr. Biden praised Maxkii's writing, encouraging people to read her work.
Maxkii had participated in a number of hackathons before being cast in the Microsoft funded documentary series Code_Trip, which premiered nationally in 2016. She, along with two other people, traveled across the country interviewing people in the technology industry. Maxkii used this platform to gain support for events focused on American Indians in technology.
In November 2016, Maxkii successfully directed the first national American Indian Collegiate hackathon, focused on addressing the digital divide and access to the Internet by rural and underserved communities.